[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: So now we're gonna make
details actually be more than just a pile
of debugging.
[LAUGH] So we're gonna actually
make it display our show for us.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
now we have this problem
that we have our shows, and
our shows contain all of our data.
And if you were getting this from a server
instead of just locally loading it,
it would be a real problem because both
details and search depend on having
access to the same data right?
This is constantly a problem that
you're gonna run into react,
is I have these two disparate components
that don't actually care about each other
but they do care about the same amount
of data or the same pieces of data.
So you have a couple options,
I mean the most naive and worst way to
handle it is that you would have both
components Ajax requested the data, right?
That makes zero sense because from
the time from search to details,
it's a horrible idea,
because I'm making two Ajax requests and
when I really only need to make one.
So our other option is we push the shows
ups to the most common ancestor.
In this particular case that would
be the entire app in general, and
then via props we'd pass
it down to both of them.
So that's what we're gonna do right now.
>> Brian Holt: This is called the data
tunneling problem and it's prevalent
everywhere in react to be totally honest.
>> Brian Holt: So, let's go ahead and
move this from search,
which is where we have data here.
We're actually gonna refactor this and
so it goes up into clientapp,jsx.
So let's go to clientapp.jsx and
we're going to require data in here.
So we're gonna say,
actually it's going to bring out shows and
say, require../ public/data, and
then we're going to do here is
we're going to go to search.
This one right here I'm
gonna pass it down, so
I wanna say shows= shows.
So now we're taking shows from up here and
we're passing it down to
the route here in search.jsx.
So let's go to search now.
>> Brian Holt: Well,
let me make sure that just
as recap what I did here.
I have shows right here, and
I'm I'm passing it down right there.
Okay, now got to search.jsx,
get rid of this line right
here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
and now instead of saying, where is it?
Data.shows, what we're gonna say now
is we're gonna say, this.props.shows.
Does that makes sense?
So now we're pulling it in from
the properties rather than just
locally requiring it.
Again I'll, yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: Just,
which line did you delete again?
>> Brian Holt: Just the require up here.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Your linter will yell at
you if you don't delete it so.
Either it's me yelling at you or
the linter, and you can pick your battle.
You can probably beat me,
I don't know if you can beat the linter.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then we changed this right here
to be this.props.shows instead of
data.shows.
>> Brian Holt: Now,
the alarm should be going
off in your head right now.
It's like I'm referencing something else
in props, if I don't change something,
then the linter is gonna yell at me.
So now you need to add something,
we need to add prop types to this.
And because this is create
class way of doing it,
we can actually just put
a prop type straight in here.
So I'm gonna put it here and
get initial state,
propTypes.
>> Brian Holt: And what I'm
gonna do up here is, I'm gonna say const.
>> Brian Holt: I
think I'm gonna pull out array of,
let me make sure.
Yep, I'm gonna pull out array of,
and I'm gonna pull out object.
And then I'm gonna say that
equals react.proptypes.
>> Brian Holt: And I'm gonna say shows is
an array of object.
>> Brian Holt: That's
another really nice feature of the create
class way of doing components,
is your prop types just live
in the component themselves.
That doesn't work for
stateless functional components and
it also doesn't work for ES6 classes.
We have to do that other methodology
of words underneath, right.
>> Brian Holt: Great, so
let's go make sure that we
didn't break what we just did.
So come back over here and
look at the search page.
>> Brian Holt: And
everything looks, and yeah make sure
my linter is not yelling at me.
Linter's not yelling and the still works
as we expect, so we've successfully
refactored that.
>> Brian Holt: Questions
about that?
>> Brian Holt: So
most people feel refactoring okay?
Okay cool, seeing mostly head nods,
only a couple middle fingers.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Okay so
now it's really cool about this is
if we go back here to clientapp.jsx.
Now we have, shows available here,
so now we can actually use that to
pass information into details as well.
So here's a design, [COUGH] excuse me,
not necessarily design,
but an architecture question that
you need to answer yourself.
We have details, or details path, it only
cares about one movie at a time right?
It only cares about one show
that we're passing in it, and
it doesn't care about any of
the other shows at any given time.
So the question is,
how are we going to pass shows in from
the router into the to the route?
And there are several correct
answers to this question.
You could pass all shows
into every detail call,
and then have detail select itself, which
show that it wants to display, right.
So you pass in the ID and
you'd also pass in all of the shows and
have details make that decision,
that might be a correct use case for you.
Maybe you need to show related movies and
you need a bunch of movies all at once,
that's an acceptable decision.
>> Sneezing Student: [SOUND]
>> Brian Holt: Bless you.
Another way to do this is,
you could have a method
here on the app, and you could have
the child's component say I have this ID,
please give me back your correct movie.
And then the parent components say
okay here's the correct movie you're
looking for.
So now the child only has to worry
about calling a function and
not necessarily which movie it
necessarily has, also a valid decision.
I'm gonna take a different route.
But a question, yes.
>> Speaker 5: There's a couple even
saying that there's an issue that
search page stopped working.
It's just showing the index page.
>> Brian Holt: You
might have, you broke it.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 5: But
I think you're going to wonder if you
have that you have the same problem?
>> Brian Holt: Mine did work.
No JK LOL.
Can't filter undefined.
>> Speaker 5: Seem that they're saying
that the shows not passed down correctly.
>> Brian Holt: Well,
let's see how we're doing that.
>> Brian Holt: I know what is happening.
It's not this.prop.shows,
it's this.props.param.shows.
>> Brian Holt: That's
the rub.
>> Brian Holt: Which
means that your prop types
are now gonna blow up, right?
It's gonna say hey, you have a bunch
of params, so you have to say params
is actually an object now.
>> Speaker 6: Should propTypes on line
11 be a function rather than a key?
>> Brian Holt: Nope,
it should be an object So
now you have to get rid of this
as well.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, my notes are wrong.
>> Brian Holt: So I fixed all that,
that hopefully should,
that's still broken, that's ungood.
>> Brian Holt: Make sure I did that right,
so it should be this.props.params.shows.
No, it's route route.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
sorry had to go through all
the things in my head real quick.
Okay, so now this needs to be route.
Okay, A+, fixed, thank you.
Debugging on the fly.
>> Brian Holt: So
the way I figure this out is cuz I've,
one I've done this workshop before.
[LAUGH]
and two,
I'm familiar enough with react router or
apparently not quite familiar enough, but
familiar enough to be able to figure out
eventually what I was supposed to do.
The way I would look at it is I would
introspect the props getting passed down,
usually by the react tools,
which we'll talk about here in a second.
But you also could have done that
pre-code JSON stringify bit I showed you,
and you can see where those
shows are actually living,
and that's how I would have found the bug.
I would definitely use react tools,
cuz it's 10 times easier and we're
going to talk about it, it might even be
next, so buckle up and get really excited.
That's all I really want to say, okay.
>> Students: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Okay, disjointed.
Let's go back to what we were
talking about originally.
Thank you for pointing out my,
>> Brian Holt: Interesting choice
in bugs, okay.